  I led a team of two to reproduce a paper, on which basis to make corresponding experiments and obtain results.
  The paper focuses on DeepCLIP, a recently proposed tool based on deep learning. DeepCLIP is the first method to model and predict protein binding to RNA nucleic acids using context-aware data as input. The method uses a shallow neural network consisting of CNN and LSTM layers to capture context-sensitive binding, is used to train and apply deep learning models of protein-RNA binding, and predicts the potential impact of clinically detected sequence variations.
  In order to reproduce the paper, we have searched for numerous related papers and studied technologies like convolutional neural networks,crosslinking-immunprecipitation and high-throughput sequencing, BLSTM and so on to understand the thesis in depth. Then we arduously reproduced the paper. Due to the limitations of the experiment, we chose to use the sequence data available on the DeepCLIP website for prediction in a single mode. The results were saved in file named predict results. At last, we analysed the results, including abnormal sequences that can be produced and the possibilities of abnormality of each base of abnormal sequence (with id as TNFRS_F5_E5+5A>T_included example, the specific result of each sequence is in the individual sequence specific prediction result file).
  After this course design, our mastery and understanding of deep learning and protein binding have become more profound. On the one hand, we understand that in recent years, deep learning techniques have become more and more widely used, such as natural language processing, object recognition, and reconstruction of brain circuits. In the biological field, deep learning models can identify dependencies and complex structures in very high-dimensional data, such as CLIP data, and have been used to predict the impact of noncoding DNA mutations on gene expression and disease, predict DNA function and protein subcellular location prediction, and more. After training and applying a protein-RNA binding deep learning model, we learned the basic idea of CNNs and their practical applications, and predicted the potential impact of clinically detected sequence variants through the model. On the other hand, we have a better understanding of the binding of proteins to RNA and their functional variation in biology. In order to delve deeper into DeepCLIP, we independently searched and studied unfamiliar biological knowledge such as splicing, nuclear shuttling, and transcript stability outside of class. We also learned about biological techniques such as NGS (Next Generation Sequencing Technology) and CLIP-seq (Ultraviolet-Linked Immunoprecipitation Combined with High-Throughput Sequencing).
